# Saturday, April 24, 2021

- Breakfast
  - Mcdonalds
- Lunch
  - Mom's birthday Picknic
- Dinner
  - JK: Leftover spaghetti, beans, and hash
  - CM: Did dishes

- Purchases
  - Ornamental plants. 
  - Corn Syrup
  - Zulka Sugar

## Morning
We traveled to woldhouse sunrise greenhouse and bought $200 worth of plants.  
At Woldhouse I showed Yuna the koi pond, and she asked if they were real. I said they're real but they're not wild. Anna told yuna "but i bet they wish they were wild, though". I held my tongue rather than explain how the bright patterns on the koi were the result of husbandry, and cause intense predation in the wild.  

## Midday
Afterwards we went on a birthday picnic for mom- she made most of the food, but louis made almond cake and I brought gummies and citrus confit. Dad liked the confit.  
I had ground some peppers for Mom- Pasilla, Ancho, Guajillo. She seemed to appreciate 'em and we put them on the food she had prepped. Then I broke out the jump ropes and Louis, Dad, Cynthia and I had fun jumpin'. We even did a multiple rope thing. Anna, Yuna, and Cheryl didn't jump the rope. We put bruce through once, and he sort of understood what to do!

Afterwards we drove to Cynthia's parents, to drop off a hanging planter. The drive took an extra half hour because i didn't have tolls enabled on Apple Maps.  

While cooking Dinner Cynthia's #emotionalstability #discipline was shot, due to intense hunger. But while she snapped at me for:  
possibly playing a video game
everything and got distrated cleaning disses